---
fontsize: 12pt
geometry: margin=1.0in
header-includes:
      - \usepackage{nopageno}
output: pdf_document
---

## SOCI 385 - Social Statistics
## Fall 2023 - Problem Set 2

***This assignment is due via Canvas by 11:59 PM on Thursday, November 16. Show all your code, write your responses in complete sentences, and label axes and plots as appropriate. Submit your rendered pdf and the Quarto (.qmd) file for your notebook. Remember to include your name in the header.***

***REMINDER: Problem sets must be completed individually. No collaboration with other students is allowed. You may use R Shortcuts in all questions except #1 where you should show all your work.***

This problem set requires the `ps2.csv` file on Canvas which includes data from the 2010-2021 waves of the General Social Survey. Any missing values are coded as `NA`. The variables are:

`year`: year the survey was completed, either 2010, 2014, 2018, or 2021;

`age`: respondent's age, from 18-89;

`racehisp`: respondent's self-reported race and Hispanic identification, categorized as "Black", "Hispanic", "Other", or "White";

`degree`: respondent's highest educational category, coded as "Less Than HS", "High School", "Junior College", "Bachelor", or "Graduate";

`eqwlth`: ***For a description of this variable, search the `gssr` package;***

`conlegis`: ***For a description of this variable, search the `gssr` package***

### Questions

***Note: Use the 95% confidence level for any significance tests.***

1. Without using any R shortcuts, find the 95% confidence interval for the mean of `eqwlth` in each of the years in the survey. Plot these intervals in a figure (with error bars), and use your figure to describe how the mean responses have changed over the survey years.

- *Clue: Check out the bottom of notebook_06_02. We went over this material quickly and we can review it in class if necessary.*

2. Create a new variable grouping the `age` variable into the following categories: 18-24, 25-39, 40-54, 55-64, 65+. Which (if any) age categories showed significant differences in mean `eqwlth` scores between the 2018 and 2021 surveys? What is a sociological explanation for these differences?

3. Does the proportion of respondents with "Hardly Any" confidence in congress differ between respondents at the lowest and highest extremes of the `eqwlth` scale? What is an additional variable you would want to explain your result in more detail?

4. In a single paragraph, summarize the results of the following three tests of association. In addition to offering sociological interpretations of your findings, describe why you chose which statistical tests to use.
      - Is there a significant association between `racehisp` and `eqwlth`?
      - Among respondents with less than a high school diploma, is there a significant association between `racehisp` and `eqwlth`?
      - Is there a significant association between age (using the categories you created in #2) and confidence in congress?
